# PrecRTR

<!--- Created on 2023.06.25.
Last change on 2023.06.25. -->

This is a collection of MATLAB files associated with the preprint
[Implicit low-rank Riemannian schemes for the time integration of stiff partial differential equations](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.11532).

We propose two implicit numerical schemes for the low-rank time integration of stiff nonlinear partial differential equations. Our approach uses the preconditioned Riemannian trust-region method of Absil, Baker, and Gallivan, 2007. We demonstrate the efficiency of our method for solving the Allen-Cahn and the Fisher-KPP equation on the manifold of fixed-rank matrices. Furthermore, our approach allows us to avoid the restriction on the time step typical of methods that use the fixed-point iteration to solve the inner nonlinear equations. Finally, we demonstrate the efficiency of the preconditioner on the same variational problems presented in Sutti and Vandereycken, 2021.

The Riemannian trust-regions (RTR) of~\protect{\cite{ABG:2007}} is executed using solvers from the Manopt package~\cite{Boumal:2014} (version 7.0) with the Riemannian embedded submanifold geometry from~\protect{\cite{Vandereycken:2013}}.

The preprint's calculations outlined in section~\ref{sec:preconditioning} are implemented in the script `getPrecon`.

In the Manopt code, we inject our preconditioner in the `trustregions`, line 14-15, we have the trust-regions `tCG` solver, line 76 in the `tCG` solver, "P is the preconditioner" `v = precon(x,u)`.


If there are any problems or bugs, feel free to [contact me](mailto:msutti@ncts.tw).


## I) Version History

- Ver 1, 12 Sep 2023: initial release.


## II) Contents

The main folder `LFMS` contains the following subfolders:

- `mdatafiles`: contains the `*.mat` datafiles generated by the main scripts.
- `model`: contains all the scripts related to each of the four models considered in the preprint: the Allen--Cahn equation (`ACE`), the Fisher--KPP equation (`FKPP`), the ``Lyapunov'' variational problem (`LYAP`) and the nonlinear PDE variational problem (`NPDE`).
- `plots`: the folder where the plots are saved.
- `postprocessing`: contains the drivers and the utilities for plotting and visualizing data.
- `reference_solutions`: contains the reference solutions generated by ... `Driver_.m`.
- `utilities`: contains all the utility functions shared by all of the four models.


## III) Installation and Usage

No installation is required. Use the `Driver_*.m` files to run the calculations or generate the figures appearing in the preprint.
The results of the simulations will be saved as matfiles in the `mdatafiles:` folder. 
Use the `Driver_*.m` files in the `postprocessing` folder for plotting and visualizing data.
The figures will then be saved into the `plots` folder.


## IV) License

The code written in this repository is GPL licensed.
